SBI     Situation - Behavior - Impact
STAR    Situation - Task - Action - Result

THE STAR METHOD
The STAR method is a structured manner of responding to a behavioral-based interview question by discussing the specific situation, task, action, and result of the situation you are describing.
Situation: Describe the situation that you were in or the task that you needed to accomplish. You must describe a specific event or situation, not a generalized description of what you have done in the past. Be sure to give enough detail for the interviewer to understand. This situation can be from a previous job, from a volunteer experience, or any relevant event.
Task: What goal were you working toward?
Action: Describe the actions you took to address the situation with an appropriate amount of detail and keep the focus on YOU. What specific steps did you take and what was your particular contribution? Be careful that you don’t describe what the team or group did when talking about a project, but what you actually did. Use the word “I,” not “we” when describing actions.
Result: Describe the outcome of your actions and don’t be shy about taking credit for your behavior. What happened? How did the event end? What did you accomplish? What did you learn? Make sure your answer contains multiple positive results.
Make sure that you follow all parts of the STAR method. Be as specific as possible at all times, without rambling or including too much information. Oftentimes students have to be prompted to include their results, so try to include that without being asked. Also, eliminate any examples that do not paint you in a positive light. However, keep in mind that some examples that have a negative result (such as “lost the game”) can highlight your strengths in the face of adversity.
SAMPLE STAR RESPONSE:
Situation (S): Advertising revenue was falling off for my college newspaper, The Review, and
large numbers of long-term advertisers were not renewing contracts.
Task (T): My goal was to generate new ideas, materials and incentives that would result in at least a 15% increase in advertisers from the year before.
Action (A): I designed a new promotional packet to go with the rate sheet and compared the benefits of The Review circulation with other ad media in the area. I also set-up a special training session for the account executives with a School of Business Administration professor who discussed competitive selling strategies.
Result (R): We signed contracts with 15 former advertisers for daily ads and five for special supplements. We increased our new advertisers by 20 percent over the same period last year.

HOW TO PREPARE FOR A BEHAVIORAL INTERVIEW
• Recall recent situations that show favorable behaviors or actions, especially involving course work, work experience, leadership, teamwork, initiative, planning, and customer service.
• Prepare short descriptions of each situation; be ready to give details if asked.
• Be sure each story has a beginning, middle, and an end, i.e., be ready to describe the situation,
including the task at hand, your action, and the outcome or result.
• Be sure the outcome or result reflects positively on you (even if the result itself was not
favorable).
• Be honest. Don't embellish or omit any part of the story. The interviewer will find out if your
story is built on a weak foundation.
• Be specific. Don't generalize about several events; give a detailed accounting of one event.
• Vary your examples; don’t take them all from just one area of your life.
SAMPLE BEHAVIORAL INTERVIEW QUESTIONS
Practice using the STAR Method on these common behavioral interviewing questions:
• Describe a situation in which you were able to use persuasion to successfully convince someone to see things your way.
• Describe a time when you were faced with a stressful situation that demonstrated your coping skills.
• Give me a specific example of a time when you used good judgment and logic in solving a problem.
• Give me an example of a time when you set a goal and were able to meet or achieve it.
• Tell me about a time when you had to use your presentation skills to influence someone's opinion.
• Give me a specific example of a time when you had to conform to a policy with which you did
not agree.
• Please discuss an important written document you were required to complete.
• Tell me about a time when you had to go above and beyond the call of duty in order to get a job
done.
• Tell me about a time when you had too many things to do and you were required to prioritize
your tasks.
• Give me an example of a time when you had to make a split second decision.
• What is your typical way of dealing with conflict? Give me an example.
• Tell me about a time you were able to successfully deal with another person even when that
individual may not have personally liked you (or vice versa).
• Tell me about a difficult decision you've made in the last year.
• Give me an example of a time when something you tried to accomplish and failed.
• Give me an example of when you showed initiative and took the lead.
• Tell me about a recent situation in which you had to deal with a very upset customer or co-
worker.
• Give me an example of a time when you motivated others.
• Tell me about a time when you delegated a project effectively.
• Give me an example of a time when you used your fact-finding skills to solve a problem.
• Tell me about a time when you missed an obvious solution to a problem.
• Describe a time when you anticipated potential problems and developed preventive measures.
• Tell me about a time when you were forced to make an unpopular decision.
• Please tell me about a time you had to fire a friend.
• Describe a time when you set your sights too high (or too low).






LEADERSHIP PRINCIPLES
Customer Obsession
    Leaders start with the customer and work backwards. They work vigorously to earn and keep customer trust. Although leaders pay attention to competitors, they obsess over customers.
Ownership
    Leaders are owners. They think long term and don’t sacrifice long-term value for short-term results. They act on behalf of the entire company, beyond just their own team. They never say “that’s not my job."
Invent and Simplify
    Leaders expect and require innovation and invention from their teams and always find ways to simplify. They are externally aware, look for new ideas from everywhere, and are not limited by “not invented here." As we do new things, we accept that we may be misunderstood for long periods of time.
Are Right, A Lot
    Leaders are right a lot. They have strong judgment and good instincts. They seek diverse perspectives and work to disconfirm their beliefs.
Learn and Be Curious
    Leaders are never done learning and always seek to improve themselves. They are curious about new possibilities and act to explore them.
Hire and Develop the Best
    Leaders raise the performance bar with every hire and promotion. They recognize exceptional talent, and willingly move them throughout the organization. Leaders develop leaders and take seriously their role in coaching others. We work on behalf of our people to invent mechanisms for development like Career Choice.
Insist on the Highest Standards
    Leaders have relentlessly high standards — many people may think these standards are unreasonably high. Leaders are continually raising the bar and drive their teams to deliver high quality products, services, and processes. Leaders ensure that defects do not get sent down the line and that problems are fixed so they stay fixed.
Think Big
    Thinking small is a self-fulfilling prophecy. Leaders create and communicate a bold direction that inspires results. They think differently and look around corners for ways to serve customers.
Bias for Action
    Speed matters in business. Many decisions and actions are reversible and do not need extensive study. We value calculated risk taking.
Frugality
    Accomplish more with less. Constraints breed resourcefulness, self-sufficiency, and invention. There are no extra points for growing headcount, budget size, or fixed expense.
Earn Trust
    Leaders listen attentively, speak candidly, and treat others respectfully. They are vocally self- critical, even when doing so is awkward or embarrassing. Leaders do not believe their or their team’s body odor smells of perfume. They benchmark themselves and their teams against the best.
Dive Deep
    Leaders operate at all levels, stay connected to the details, audit frequently, and are skeptical when metrics and anecdote differ. No task is beneath them.
Have Backbone; Disagree and Commit
    Leaders are obligated to respectfully challenge decisions when they disagree, even when doing so is uncomfortable or exhausting. Leaders have conviction and are tenacious. They do not compromise for the sake of social cohesion. Once a decision is determined, they commit wholly.
Deliver Results
    Leaders focus on the key inputs for their business and deliver them with the right quality and in a timely fashion. Despite setbacks, they rise to the occasion and never settle.


Example questions
“Who are the customers for your product and what do they like or not like about your company’s product/service?” (Customer Obsession)

"Tell me about the last time you learned something new about technology." (Learn and be Curious)

“Tell me about a time you disagreed with your manager” (Have Backbone, disagree, and commit)

“Have you ever had the chance to alter or create a process that improved workflow?” (Invent and Simplify)

“Tell me more about your most recent project” (Dive Deep) 
    in other words, don’t just give a top level view—Amazon interviewers will want to hear all the nitty gritty..
    Why did you choose a particular technology? 
    What were the tradeoffs you considered?

What are the advantages/disadvantages of your approach? 
What were your biggest challenges? 
What would you change if you could do it over? (Insist on the Highest Standards)

“What was your role on the project?” (Ownership) 
    (Tip: many candidates like to say “we did this...or we did that...” 
    It’s important to us that we understand what part of the project YOU were responsible for, 
    so it’s okay to say “I did this....my idea was to....I championed this...” 
    Did you reach out to customers? 
    Did you take time to understand what the customers needed before you started the project? 
    Why or why not? (Customer Obsession)


“Tell me about a time you needed to be proactive about a situation?” (Bias for Action)
    Do you wait for someone to tell you what to do? 
    Do you procrastinate until the last minute? 
    Here at Amazon, we value people with a strong bias for action. We have a lot to get done.

We’ll have discussions about Hire and Develop the Best. (Hire and Develop the Best)
    If you’ll be managing people or serving as a technical lead, mentoring others will be an important part of your role. 
    We’ll ask how you help others grow, attract great talent to your team, 
    and how you handle it when a team member may not be meeting expectations.

AMAZON CULTURE QUESTIONS
Customer obsession: 
    We mentioned it above, but customers are so important to us that we’ll repeat it. 
    Amazonians care about Amazon customers and we want to hire other people who will share that passion.
Dealing with Ambiguity: 
    Things move fast here at Amazon and we may not always have the info we would like, or things may change drastically from day to the next. 
    You’ll need to be able to handle an environment with a lot of ambiguity and constant change.

MOST IMPORTANT OF ALL: 
    Please be yourself, you’re clearly very talented and that’s why we’re excited to talk to you. 
    Know that we are grateful and honored that you’re choosing to consider a role here at Amazon.

Some of my experiences I can draw upon + data
Supplement with data.



Sample questions from https://youtu.be/Ta9tCwcMbXs
• Describe a time when you went above and beyond what was expected to help a customer? (Customer Obsession)

• Tell me about a time when you failed at work? (Ownership)

• Describe a time when you overcame a difficult challenge at work? (Deliver Results)

• Tell me about a time when you had a disagreement with somebody at work? (Have backbone, disagree, & commit)